
2023-12-07 20:55
parent container with two children
child1 = nav, we already have
child 2= main

child 2 has 2 children
grandchild1 = column1
grandchild2= column2

whitespace is handled by justify-content center
column1 = flex3
column2 = flex2


assume 1280 x 720 monitor?
1200 pixel monitor 

after measurement, corrections:

column 1: 250 px
column 2: 125 px
so flex 2 vs flex1


total site width = 600px;
width of content area = 400px; 



column 1 item 1, profile = 200px tall
column 1 item 2, education cuts off height wise
column 2 item 1, 100 px tall
column 2 item 2 , 160px tall

of course, subject to change to match reality as it's drawn? 


whitespace = 80px;
margin between navbar and main  20px;
margin between column 1 and 2= 20px;
so probably whitespace = 60px +20px margin on each side 

2023-12-07 21:10

first create html and css sheets CHECK
second, create container, then two divs for NAV BAR and MAIN
third display flex main,
fourth two divs within main profileEducation and your Connections
profileEducation is flexed2 your  Connections is flexed 1
fifth give main margin of twenty px
sixth... i thnik if i difine my flex-items absolutely, and then center, it should work out...  oh ... i see. yeah. no. let's do percentage.
so the container is about 600, uhh... so it's basically 250/600 ad 125/600 which is 40 percent and 20 percent 

2023-12-07 21:26

ok in practice i'm not actually sure how i want to do the nav bar vs. the main content. 
i guess i could just flex it. 

looking at stack overflow 

/*
let's try this?
html, body {
    margin:0;
    padding:0;
    height:100%;
*/ 

first we'll make all these divs, then we'll color so we can see 

2023-12-07 21:41 SNAPSHOTA

spent 15 minutes not knowing why it wasn't working. 
i just didn't link the ref sheet. 
at any rate, fixed it, and got snapshot 941pm. available in folder.
red and aqua show that my columns are working properly, or at least are spaced in the center properly. 
next, try to see if i can make the container height work properly just giving columns 1 and 2 items with height. 
also decided to give container absolute width. 

2023-12-07 22:03 SNAPSHOTB
did that and got snapshot B. looks pretty good tbh but the nav bar ain't really doing what i want, but i guess it's not a huge issue.  let's give the boxes different colors, and we'll also just give an extreme value to the height of one of the boxes to show how everything adjusts. 





2023-12-07 22:18 SNAPSHOTC


unexpectedly, our four boxes seem to be not within our columns but beside them. well whatever, that's fine. 

what's illustrative in snapshotC still is that the height of the tallest child element determines the height of the parent and even the grandparent here. that is to say, box 4 alone, b4 in the diagram is making the entirety of main 700px. 
2023-12-07 22:28
tbh not really sure what's going on. i'm guessing it's wrapping? let's ask chatgpt!

2023-12-07 22:42 SNAPSHOTD

https://chat.openai.com/share/bd3c180e-25a6-4d0d-9610-9b55e5adc522

that was a pretty good and informative conversation, but unfortunately it still ain't working. or is it? maybe it just isn't justified?
nope. doesn't do anything .neither does align-content. even if i make a point of making all of the boxes have a very small height, it doesn't work right, as snapshotD2 illustrates (with .mainContent changed to yellow to show clearly they're not going in) 
hljkfgkljdg

oh fsfisd sdf gchrist
 kill me
 my div containers for profileEducation and yourConnections didn't contain my boxes rip snapshot D3Error highlights 

 chatGPT  conversation has also been saved as markdown file in snapshot D (added retroactively)

 2023-12-07 22:56 SNAPSHOTE 11PM

 well, at least now it looks different. first off, let's remove anything chatgpt suggested. it was a good discussion but right or wrong it complicates things. snapshotE  demonstrates the removal of flex from col1 and col2  (profileEducation and yourConnections)

 snapshotE2 demonstrates that even if i remove the justify-content:center from .mainContent, col 2 still goes to the next line, indicating some kind of wrapping. 

 yeah ok, i'm a moron. more div wrapping issues. snapshot E3 demonstrates i once again didn't wrap my divs up properly. 

2023-12-07 23:18 SNAPSHOTF 1118PM
snapshotF demonstrates our items in our columns acting as expected. between col1 and col2, the tallest determines the height of main. col1 is box1+box2, col2 is box3 +box4. 

snapshotF2 demonstrates removing our height values doesn't  change anything. (also I made navBar's text white so you can clearly see it. )

2023-12-07 23:41
ngl i just spent the lsat 20 minutes being pissed because i broke my css somehow. i don't even know what i did, but eventually i just mashed ctrl z until it worked again.

right now, i don't like how my boxes aren't aligned in the middle of my columns. it's very clear to me now that a bunch of alignment/justification properties sound very similar. 

align-content
align-text
justify-content
align-items

worse, is that actually sometimes you don't want to use these justifications at all, but want to do margins. being clear with it, it took a lot of screwing around with elements and then talking to chatgpt, before i settled on using auto-margin. 

this discussion with chatGPT can be seen in snapshotG, along with the results of using automargin. I have some worries this is  stopgap measure, but it'll be fine for now.

I think this is a good stopping point for my meticulous self-documentation, because a lot of what's left is just the finer details of what's in the boxes, as well as putting in stuff we already had in class. The main point of this wasn't necessarily a full walkthrough, but just to show reasoning through the CSS in its most abstract form. if you read this far, i hope it helped. 

i won't be doing meticulous documenting, but i will still keep sharing snapshots of the project at different points. also i just realized how stupid it was doing the vs code screenshots instead of just saving new markdown files inthe snapshots pages but whatever. 


approx timestamp 
1AM i didn't properly timestamp this, but snapshot I was roughly 1AM

actually, i'm double stupid? why am i even changing them to markdown files? 